In p5.js we can define colors in a lot of
different ways. The most simple way of defining
a color is just a single number. This defines a
grayscale color value, it goes from 0 for black
to 255 for white. If i change this to 255 save
it, the canvas turns white. Beyond grayscale we
can also use the RGB spectrum, therefore we simply
define three colors, three color values, R G B.
Provide them as numbers and
now we can create colors
in the RGB spectrum. In addition we
can also provide a fourth number,
to define the alpha or the opacity. This also goes
from 0 to 255. If i choose a value in between,
it should be half transparent. But it becomes
blue again. Why is this happening. You remember,
that the draw function is called continuously, so
what is now happening, is that the slightly opaque
blue is now being drawn upon another
and so after a few milliseconds it turns
completely blue. If we actually want to see
this lightly blue color, what we need to do
is first draw a white background and
then the slightly opaque blue on top.
So what we can see here already it's very
important the order of your commands. What the
program does in the background, it goes from top
to bottom. And first it draws the white background
and then the the blue opaque background. Another
way to define colors, are the way we do it in
CSS. If you've worked with CSS in HTML before,
this will be very familiar to you. Therefore
we can use the RGB way or in this case we
already have an alpha value so the RGBA
format. You might notice that i have quotes
around this part of the input. In this case we
are not providing numeric values, but instead
we're providing text, a string as an input.
In order for our JavaScript application to
not interpret this part of the code as an
actual command, but as text, we need to put it
in quotes. For JavaScript it doesn't matter if
you use double or single quotes, it just needs to
be the same quotes at the beginning and at the end
of your string. What is also important if you
already have used CSS you already know this,
if you're using this format, the alpha,
the opacity isn't going from 0 to 255, but
instead from 0 to 1. If we want to have it half
transparent, we need to use 0.5 instead of 125.
Okay, the last way that i will show you,
there's a lot more ways to define colors
that you can look up in the reference, is the HEX
value. The HEX value, you can also find in most
modern graphics editing applications
as an input type for colors or export
type. So in this case we use the # in the
beginning and then we can define our color.
And so we get another way of defining our colors.